Microchip SAMRH71 Runtimes
==========================

Runtimes Supported
------------------

* Light
* Light-Tasking
* Embedded

Targets Supported
-----------------

Cortex-M7 MCUs

System Clocks
-------------

Clocks Configuration
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,

The system clock source is the main phase-locked loop (PLLA) driven by the
Master Clock. The Master Clock is sourced from the external crystal. The
frequency of the external crystal is assumed to be 10MHz. You can adjust the
settings for system clock frequency by changing Setup_PLL procedure
(gnat/setup_pll.adb).

Package System.BB.Parameters (gnat/s-bbpara.ads) imports the Clock_Frequency
value for use as timer basis. The shared procedure Setup_PLL configures the
PLLA (using the defined constants) and main system clocks.


Startup Code
------------

The startup code is in multiple assembly language files located in the gnat
subdirectory within the runtime.

There are two assembly language files for the startup code, one each for
executing from RAM or ROM, plus a common file shared by both (e.g., that
starts the FPU). These are files named start-ram.S, start-rom.S, and
start-common.S, respectively.

The specific startup code is selected by the linker scripts' references to
the unique symbols defined in the assembly files, via the entry point
definitions.

For the Light runtime these start-\*.S file is used to initialize the vector
table.

For the Ravenscar runtimes, the vector table is initialized by code in
handler.S. The code in package System.BB.CPU_Primitives (gnat/s-bbcppr.adb)
installs GNAT-specific handlers that raise exceptions for the traps.

Floating-point Co-processor
---------------------------

Package System.BB.Parameters (gnat/s-bbpara.ads) specifies whether a FPU is
present, but this is used in conditional code in the context switch routine,
not to decide whether to enable the FPU. The supported SAMRH7 targets all have
an FPU so the unit is enabled in the common startup code (start-common.S). If
your target does not have an FPU change the assembly code and the
System.BB.Parameters package.

Interrupts
----------

The package Ada.Interrupts.Names (a-intnam.ads) is located in the gnat
directory. This package spec was automatically generated from an SVD file so
you will not need to change it unless an SVD file was unavailable for your
target.

See package System.BB.MCU_Parameters (s-bbmcpa.ads) for the number of
interrupts defined. That number must reflect the contents of the
SVD-generated package Ada.Interrupts.Names.

Memory Layout
-------------

The memory layout is controlled by linker scripts specific to whether the
program is located in RAM or ROM. The scripts are located in the ld
directory and are named common-RAM.ld and common-ROM.ld, respectively.

Script selection is controlled by a scenario variable declared in an XML
file named runtime.xml that is located in the runtime root directory. The
scenario variable is used to specify linker switches.

The memory sections' locations and sizes are specified in memory-map.ld,
also located in the ld directory. The XML also specifies this file as part
of the linker switches.

You can modify all of these scripts as required. Alternatively, these
scripts can be overridden at link time using the LDSCRIPT environment
variable.

Resources Used
--------------

The Ravenscar runtime libraries use the SysTick interrupt to implement Ada
semantics for time, i.e., delay statements and package Ada.Real_Time. The
SysTick interrupt handler runs at highest priority. See procedure
Sys_Tick_Handler in package body System.BB.CPU_Primitives
(gnat/s-bbcppr.adb), which calls through to the handler in the trap vectors
only when necessary for the sake of efficiency.
